COOPERATIVE PATENT CLASSIFICATION
EDUCATION; CRYPTOGRAPHY; DISPLAY; ADVERTISING; SEALS
CIPHERING OR DECIPHERING APPARATUS FOR CRYPTOGRAPHIC OR OTHER
PURPOSES INVOLVING THE NEED FOR SECRECY
In this subclass non-limiting references (in the sense of paragraph 39 of the Guide to the IPC) may still be displayed in the
    1/00    Apparatus or methods whereby a given sequence
of signs, e.g. an intelligible text, is transformed into
an unintelligible sequence of signs by transposing
the signs or groups of signs or by replacing them
by others according to a predetermined system
(cryptographic typewriters G09C 3/00)
    1/02    . by using a ciphering code in chart form
    1/04    . with sign carriers or indicators moved relative
to one another to positions determined by a
permutation code, or key, so as to indicate the
appropriate corresponding clear or ciphered text
    1/06    . wherein elements corresponding to the signs making
up the clear text are operatively connected with
elements corresponding to the signs making up the
ciphered text, the connections, during operation of
the apparatus, being automatically and continuously
permuted by a coding or key member
    1/08    . . the connections being mechanical
    1/10    . . the connections being electrical
    1/12    . . . comprising contact-bearing permutation discs
    1/14    . . involving removable or interchangeable coding
numbers, e.g. master tapes, punched cards
    3/00    Typewriters for ciphering or deciphering
cryptographic text (marking record carriers G06K)
    3/02    . with auxiliary keys or keyboards acting on the
    3/04    . wherein the operative connections between the
keys and the type-bars are automatically and
continuously permuted, during operation, by a
    3/06    . . the connections being mechanical
    3/08    . . the connections being electrical
    3/10    . . involving removable or interchangeable coding
members, e.g. master tapes, punched cards
    5/00    Ciphering apparatus or methods not provided
for in the preceding groups, e.g. involving the
concealment or deformation of graphic data such
as designs, written or printed messages