COOPERATIVE PATENT CLASSIFICATION
INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY [ICT] SPECIALLY
ADAPTED FOR SPECIFIC APPLICATION FIELDS
HEALTHCARE INFORMATICS, i.e. INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION
TECHNOLOGY [ICT] SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR THE HANDLING OR
PROCESSING OF MEDICAL OR HEALTHCARE DATA
1. This subclass covers cross-sectional aspects of computer, information or communication science with medical or healthcare
science, where the focus is clearly placed on digital computing or data processing systems or methods, which are specially
adapted for medical or healthcare science.
2. This subclass does not cover:
a. medical equipment, medical methods, methods of diagnosis, methods of treatment or therapy, clinical care or surgical
procedures per se, which are covered by the relevant subclasses of A61;
b. signal processing or signal transmission associated to diagnostic measurements, e.g. signal waveform analysis, which are
3. In order to determine whether a technical subject relating to medical or healthcare science is classified in this subclass or in
the relevant subclasses of A61, the following should be observed:
a. to classify a technical subject in this subclass it is required that the essential technical features of the subject focus onto
digital computing or data processing systems or methods;
b. if the technical subject focuses onto aspects of medical science, e.g. physiological signals or medical conditions, or if the
subject involves a significant interaction with the patient, e.g. details of a diagnostic measurement, then classification shall
be directed to the appropriate subclasses of class A61;
c. the mere presence of "a computer" or "a flowchart" in relation to medical devices or procedures is not a key element for
classifying in this subclass. In this case classification shall rather be directed to the appropriate subclasses covering those
In this subclass non-limiting references (in the sense of paragraph 39 of the Guide to the IPC) may still be displayed in the
   10/00    ICT specially adapted for the handling or
processing of patient-related medical or healthcare
data (for medical reports G16H 15/00; for therapies
or health-improving plans G16H 20/00; for
the handling or processing of medical images
   10/20    . for electronic clinical trials or questionnaires
   10/40    . for data related to laboratory analysis, e.g. patient
   10/60    . for patient-specific data, e.g. for electronic patient
   10/65    . . stored on portable record carriers, e.g. on
   15/00    ICT specially adapted for medical reports, e.g.
generation or transmission thereof
   20/00    ICT specially adapted for therapies or health-
improving plans, e.g. for handling prescriptions,
for steering therapy or for monitoring patient
   20/10    . relating to drugs or medications, e.g. for ensuring
correct administration to patients
   20/13    . . delivered from dispensers
   20/17    . . delivered via infusion or injection
   20/30    . relating to physical therapies or activities, e.g.
physiotherapy, acupressure or exercising
   20/40    . relating to mechanical, radiation or invasive
therapies, e.g. surgery, laser therapy, dialysis or
   20/60    . relating to nutrition control, e.g. diets
   20/70    . relating to mental therapies, e.g. psychological
   20/90    . relating to alternative medicines, e.g. homeopathy or
   30/00    ICT specially adapted for the handling or
processing of medical images (computerised
   30/20    . for handling medical images, e.g. DICOM, HL7 or
   30/40    . for processing medical images, e.g. editing
   40/00    ICT specially adapted for the management or
administration of healthcare resources or facilities;
ICT specially adapted for the management or
operation of medical equipment or devices
   40/20    . for the management or administration of healthcare
resources or facilities, e.g. managing hospital staff
   40/40    . for the management of medical equipment or
devices, e.g. scheduling maintenance or upgrades
   40/60    . for the operation of medical equipment or devices
1. This group covers ICT specially adapted for the
operation of medical equipment or devices, or
of their interfaces, i.e. aspects of the operation
where the focus is on the processing of medical
or healthcare data which results in contextual,
content-related or structural transformation of
2. This group does not cover the operation of
medical equipment or devices, or of their
interfaces, without contextual, content-related
or structural transformation of medical or
healthcare data, which is covered by the relevant
   40/63    . . for local operation
   40/67    . . for remote operation
   50/00    ICT specially adapted for medical diagnosis,
medical simulation or medical data mining; ICT
specially adapted for detecting, monitoring or
modelling epidemics or pandemics
   50/20    . for computer-aided diagnosis, e.g. based on medical
   50/30    . for calculating health indices; for individual health
   50/50    . for simulation or modelling of medical disorders
   50/70    . for mining of medical data, e.g. analysing previous
   50/80    . for detecting, monitoring or modelling epidemics or
   70/00    ICT specially adapted for the handling or
processing of medical references
   70/20    . relating to practices or guidelines
   70/40    . relating to drugs, e.g. their side effects or intended
   70/60    . relating to pathologies
   80/00    ICT specially adapted for facilitating
communication between medical practitioners or
patients, e.g. for collaborative diagnosis, therapy