COOPERATIVE PATENT CLASSIFICATION
INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY [ICT] SPECIALLY
ADAPTED FOR SPECIFIC APPLICATION FIELDS
INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY SPECIALLY ADAPTED
FOR THE INTERNET OF THINGS [IoT]
1. This subclass covers inter-networking of physical objects ("things") that embed technology enabling the things to sense and
collect information from their internal state or their external environment, wherein the information is processed by the things
or by other devices, e.g. servers, to be output to the things, to other things or to other devices, and enabling these things to be
connected to the Internet either directly or indirectly.
• "Directly connected to Internet" means that a thing possesses a network address of the Internet address space, which is
used to communicate over the Internet.
• "Indirectly connected to Internet" means that a thing is connected to a proxy device, which possesses a network address of
the Internet address space and which communicates over the Internet on behalf of the thing.
• A network address of the Internet address space is an address uniquely identifying a device in the Internet.
2. This subclass does not cover:
• Mere monitoring, e.g. security cameras, or mere controlling, e.g. remote control arrangements.
• Generic computing and communicating devices, e.g. computers or telephones
3. This subclass is intended to enable a complementary search of subject matter related to IoT by combination of classification
symbols of this subclass with classification symbols from other subclasses. Therefore this subclass covers aspects of IoT (e.g.
detection or navigation) that might also be entirely or partially covered elsewhere in the IPC.
4. This subclass is for obligatory supplementary classification of subject matter already classified as such in other classification
places, when the subject matter contains an aspect of IoT.
5. The classification symbols of this subclass are not listed first when assigned to patent documents.
6. No systematic reclassification was done when this subclass was introduced. When searching using the symbols of this
subclass it should be noted that many documents published before 2020 are not classified in subclass G16Y.
   10/35    . Utilities, e.g. electricity, gas or water
   10/50    . Finance; Insurance
   10/60    . Healthcare; Welfare
   10/65    . Entertainment or amusement; Sports
   10/75    . Information technology; Communication
   20/00    Information sensed or collected by the things
   20/10    . relating to the environment, e.g. temperature;
   20/20    . relating to the thing itself
   20/30    . relating to resources, e.g. consumed power
   20/40    . relating to personal data, e.g. biometric data, records
   40/00    IoT characterised by the purpose of the
   40/10    . Detection; Monitoring
   40/20    . Analytics; Diagnosis
   40/35    . . Management of things, i.e. controlling in
accordance with a policy or in order to achieve
   40/40    . Maintenance of things
   40/50    . Safety; Security of things, users, data or systems
   40/60    . Positioning; Navigation