COOPERATIVE PATENT CLASSIFICATION
PERFORMING OPERATIONS; TRANSPORTING
MICROSTRUCTURAL TECHNOLOGY; NANOTECHNOLOGY
SPECIFIC USES OR APPLICATIONS OF NANOSTRUCTURES; MEASUREMENT
OR ANALYSIS OF NANOSTRUCTURES; MANUFACTURE OR TREATMENT OF
1. This subclass covers applications and aspects of nanostructures which are produced by any method, and is not restricted to
those that are formed by manipulation of individual atoms or molecules.
2. Attention is drawn to the Note following the title of class B82, which defines the meaning of the terms "nanosize",
"nanoscale" and "nanostructure" in this subclass.
3. This subclass is intended to enable a comprehensive search of subject matter related to nanostructures by combination of
classification symbols of this subclass with classification symbols from other subclasses. Therefore this subclass covers
aspects of nanostructures that might also be entirely or partially covered elsewhere in the IPC.
4. This subclass is for secondary classification, i.e. obligatory supplementary classification of subject matter already classified as
such in other classification places, e.g. :
Nanostructures formed by individual manipulation of atoms, molecules, or limited collections
of atoms or molecules as discrete units; manufacture or treatment thereof
Nanocapsules for medicinal preparations
Carbon nanostructures, e.g. bucky-balls, nanotubes, nanocoils, nanodoughnuts or nanoonions
Nanostructured thin magnetic films
5. The classification symbols of this subclass are not listed first when assigned to patent documents.
    5/00    Nanobiotechnology or nanomedicine, e.g. protein
   10/00    Nanotechnology for information processing,
storage or transmission, e.g. quantum computing
   15/00    Nanotechnology for interacting, sensing or
actuating, e.g. quantum dots as markers in protein
   20/00    Nanooptics, e.g. quantum optics or photonic
   25/00    Nanomagnetism, e.g. magnetoimpedance,
anisotropic magnetoresistance, giant
magnetoresistance or tunneling magnetoresistance
   30/00    Nanotechnology for materials or surface science,
   35/00    Methods or apparatus for measurement or
   40/00    Manufacture or treatment of nanostructures
   99/00    Subject matter not provided for in other groups of